---
title: "Big Swiss"
description: "Sex, Lies, and Therapy Tapes"
pubDate: 2024-08-07
author: "Jason"
tags: ["book-review"]
---

Ashely read [Big
Swiss](https://bookshop.org/p/books/big-swiss-jen-beagin/18375010) while we were
in Mexico City and, while I was trying to read some **serious** literature in
our down time, this book kept her laughing. Our tastes in book have a pretty
serious overlap, mostly around books that are
[comedic](https://bookshop.org/p/books/my-struggle-book-2-a-man-in-love-karl-ove-knausgaard/8479822?ean=9780374534158)
or [big and
epic](https://bookshop.org/p/books/middlesex-jeffrey-eugenides/585761?ean=9780312427733)
or about [alcoholics who crush mad
dog](https://bookshop.org/p/books/a-manual-for-cleaning-women-selected-stories-lucia-berlin/8365330?ean=9781250094735).
I knew that when I was done reading about how [one man really just wants some
damn peace and quiet so he can write for once in his
life](https://bookshop.org/p/books/my-struggle-book-2-a-man-in-love-karl-ove-knausgaard/8479822?ean=9780374534158),
that I had to pick up this book.

## Brief Overview (no spoilers)

This book is about a woman named Greta who moves to the Hudson Valley to escape
her dull life in California. She moves into an old Dutch house with a distant
roommate and a colony of bees and snags a job as a transcriber for a sex
therapist who is interested in writing a book someday and would like to use his
patients' stories as inspiration. One of his patients, who Greta names Big
Swiss, captures Greta's interest. They meet in person because apparently
everyone knows everyone in Hudson Valley and the rest flows from there. 

## The Good

This book is really quite funny. I kept getting jealous that one writer can have
so many good one liners (I will forever call donkeys "donks" and I will steal the
joke about drowning in genderfluids). Really, she needs to save some for the
rest of us out there.

Greta listening in on Big Swiss' therapy sessions charged the whole book and I
thought it was such a great move that bolstered the book structurally and
conceptually. So much about the book is about hiding from yourself and other
people and this dynamic and what better way to cut through all of that than drop
in on someone's private dialogue? It made Big Swiss' backstory reveal so much
more interesting. Greta was privvy to how Big Swiss thought her, which no one
ever gets that information from someone, including the people they love.

This move heightened every interaction Greta had with her fellow Hudson
Valley-ers because she knew way too much about their sex lives. It was fun to go
around with her and secretly judge other people or realize someone she hated on
the tapes maybe didn't seem as bad in real life. This speaks to how fully
fleshed out the Hudson Valley was in the novel because she really jammed this
book with characters that felt real and not a cast of the
millenial-who-drinks-oat-milk-and-wants-to-raise-cows-despite-never-working-with-their-hands
stereotype. There are some of those folks, but their characterization never
feels lazy. 

## The Not So Good

I think Big Swiss' stalker is supposed to make us feel tense, but it rarely ever
does. I'm not sure why that is. Maybe the book can be too silly? Maybe it's hard
to take Greta seriously? Maybe Big Swiss is too stoic? Maybe I'm just a dude and
don't quite get this point? But I never once felt scared.

I could have also done without Stacy and his Bah-ston accent. That drove me
nuts and I almost had to put down the book. Seriously, I had to ask Ashley if it
went on forever. Fortunately, it did not.

I think the point above speaks to maybe there was a touch too much padding in
the book from a plot standpoint. This is a common refrain from me. I like short
novels.

## Rating

4 out of 5 bees: üêù üêù üêù üêù

